<u>Project Plan</u>

Team Name: Git Guardians

Team Members:

- Tyler Short

- Steven Dawe

- Jakub Sepiolo

- Owen Bradstreet

- Luke Wood

Project Name: COM619-AE1 Assessment

Project Link: [<u>jakubsepiolo2001/COM619-AE1: COM619 Dev Ops
Project</u>](https://github.com/jakubsepiolo2001/COM619-AE1)

Stakeholder: Craig Gallen

Project Duration: 9th October 2023 to 8th December 2023

**<u>Sprint Schedule</u>**

Sprint 1: 9th October 2023 - 29th October 2023

Focus: Laying the Foundations and Basics

Sprint 2: 30th October 2023 - 19th November 2023

Focus: Completing Core Functionality

Sprint 3: 20th November 2023 - 8th December 2023

Focus: Finalizing Core Functionality and Nice-to-Have Features

**<u>Work Meetings</u>**

Weekly Scrum Meetings (Virtual): Virtual Scrum meetings on Mondays
provide an opportunity to align the team, discuss progress, identify
issues, and plan the work for the upcoming week. These meetings allow us
to follow an agile project management workflow and remain responsive to
changing requirements/challenges.

In-Person Scrum Meetings: In-person Scrum meetings on Thursdays offer a
schedule for more in-depth discussions. This allows the team to dive
into specific challenges, brainstorm solutions, and address any blockers
effectively. Face-to-face meetings engage the team more and help gain a
deeper understanding of the project status.

**<u>General Planning and Structure</u>**

Using kanban boards provides a visual representation of our project and
the on-going sprint. It allows team members to quickly identify the
status of tasks and helps in workload management, reducing potential
burnout among team members and create a more adaptable and flexible work
environment. The transparency of the current workload incorporated
collaboration and increases communication.

A standardized workflow ensures consistency in how we handle tasks. It
minimizes confusion and miscommunication within the team. This structure
will streamline our work process and prevent issues from falling through
the cracks.

Roadmaps provides visual representation of the timeline of each
individual task and the overall sprints. It allows the team to quickly
identify where time and resources were allocated during a sprint and
what issues/areas of the project might need more planning and oversight
to help smooth over future tasks.

**<u>Workflow</u>**

Kanban Board - Issues will be created and managed using a Kanban board,
which will include the following statues:

- To-Do: Tasks that need to be addressed.

- In Progress: Tasks that team members are actively working on.

- In Review: Tasks that are completed and need to be reviewed.

- Blocked: Tasks that are temporarily halted due to dependencies or
  issues.

- Done: Tasks that are completed and approved.

  Roadmap - Issues will be tracked and time managed using a roadmap to
  provide a holistic overview of the projects timeline and when each
  feature was attempted and completed or left incomplete. The roadmap
  will include the following:

1.  Date created

2.  Issue started (in-progress)

3.  Issue in review

4.  Issue closed

Standardized Workflow - Each issue will be managed through the following
workflow steps:

1.  Testing: Issues must be tested before moving forward.

2.  Review: Issues are reviewed by team members.

3.  Implementation of Comments: Any review comments are addressed.

4.  Second Testing: Issues must have final testing before moving
    forward.

5.  Closed as Done.

**<u>Communication Plan</u>**

Effective communication is vital to ensure that the project stays on
track, team members are aligned, and stakeholders are informed about
project progress. The following communication plan outlines the key
elements of communication:

1\. Collaboration Tools:

- Tools: Collaboration tools, such as team chat platforms, document
  sharing, and issue tracking systems, will be used to facilitate
  real-time communication and information sharing among team members.

- Justification: Collaborative tools streamline communication and
  information exchange, making it easier for team members to work
  together, even in virtual settings.

2\. Stakeholder Updates:

- Regular Updates: Project stakeholders will receive regular updates on
  project progress, achieved milestones, and any significant changes or
  delays.

- Justification: Keeping stakeholders informed fosters transparency,
  helps manage expectations, and ensures that the project aligns with
  stakeholder requirements.

3.  Clear Task Assignments:

- Task Management: Team members will receive clear task assignments,
  including responsibilities and deadlines, to minimize confusion and
  miscommunication.

- Justification: Clear task assignments reduce the risk of overlap,
  ensure accountability, and promote a structured approach to project
  management.

**<u>Risk Management</u>**

Throughout the project we will need to be mindful of risk management.
Identifying potential risks and having strategies and plans to mitigate
these risks are essential to the project being a success. The following
risks have been mentioned, along with potential impact of the risks and
strategies for mitigation:

1.  Technical Challenges:

- Impact: Complex technical challenges may arise during the development
  of the REST APIs, database integration, or geolocation functionality,
  potentially leading to project delays.

- Mitigation: To address this, the team will conduct thorough research
  and planning during Sprint 1. Additionally, we will assign experienced
  team members to critical technical tasks and be prepared to seek
  external expertise if needed.

2.  Resource Constraints:

- Impact: Limited availability of team members or resource constraints
  may hinder project progress, particularly during intense development
  sprints.

- Mitigation: We will establish a clear project plan and allocate tasks
  based on team members' expertise and availability. Regular
  communication and task prioritization will help us navigate resource
  constraints.

3.  GDPR Compliance Challenges:

- Impact: Failing to meet GDPR guidelines could lead to legal and
  privacy issues, damaging the project's reputation and user trust.

- Mitigation: To ensure compliance, the team will conduct a
  comprehensive GDPR review during Sprint 2, addressing any potential
  issues or gaps in data protection. We will also seek legal counsel if
  needed.

4.  User Authentication and Security Risks:

- Impact: Inadequate user authentication and security measures could
  expose the application to data breaches and user privacy violations.

- Mitigation: The team will implement robust user authentication and
  security measures during Sprint 1. Additionally, external security
  assessments will be conducted to identify and address vulnerabilities.

5.  Cloud Hosting Service Downtime:

- Impact: Downtime or service interruptions from the chosen cloud
  hosting provider could affect application availability.

- Mitigation: We will select a reputable cloud hosting provider with a
  strong track record for uptime.

6.  Scope Creep:

- Impact: Expanding project scope beyond the original requirements can
  lead to schedule overruns and budget issues.

- Mitigation: We will closely adhere to the defined project requirements
  and continuously assess whether new features align with project
  objectives. Changes will be evaluated and approved through a change
  control process.

  7\. Communication Challenges:

<!-- -->

- Impact: Inadequate communication among team members or with
  stakeholders can lead to misunderstandings, missed deadlines, and
  project delays.

- Mitigation: The team will maintain regular communication through
  virtual Scrum meetings (Mondays) and in-person meetings (Thursdays).
  Collaborative tools like GitHub and Microsoft Teams will be used for
  real-time updates and issue tracking.

  8\. Unforeseen Dependencies:

<!-- -->

- Impact: The project may encounter unforeseen dependencies, which could
  impact timelines and cause project delays.

- Mitigation: We will maintain clear documentation and regularly update
  the Kanban board and roadmap to identify and address dependencies as
  they arise.

**<u>Documentation Standards</u>**

Clear and consistent documentation is essential to ensure that team
members and stakeholders have access to accurate and reliable
information for the project:

- Documentation Tools: The project will utilize a documentation platform
  (e.g., Wiki, Markdown, or a designated static indexing system) for
  project documentation. This platform will serve as the central
  repository for all project-related documentation.

- Document Types: Documentation will encompass various types, including
  code documentation, user guides, and project documentation. Each type
  will adhere to defined standards.

- Version Control: All documentation will be version-controlled,
  ensuring that changes and updates are tracked, reviewed, and approved
  by relevant team members.

- Accessibility: Documentation will be made accessible to all team
  members, and guidelines will be provided for accessing, editing, and
  updating documentation.

**<u>Deployment Plan</u>**

Effective deployment planning is crucial to ensure a smooth transition
from development to production, maintaining the integrity of the
application while adhering to the specified requirements. This plan
addresses the key aspects of the deployment process for the project:

1\. Branch Management:

- Individual Branches: Each issue will be assigned to an individual
  branch. This approach ensures that each task is isolated, making it
  easier to track progress, test, and review.

- Testing and Review: Before merging any branch into the main branch,
  comprehensive testing and peer review will be conducted to verify that
  the code is functioning correctly and adheres to the project's
  standards.

- Automated Testing with GitHub Actions: Commits to the main branch will
  trigger an automated GitHub Action that checks if the Java Maven
  application can be built using the .pom file. This automated testing
  process guarantees code quality and consistency before changes are
  integrated into the main branch.

2\. Deployment Process:

- Incremental Updates: We will follow a strategy of incremental updates
  to the hosted application. Instead of infrequent major releases, this
  approach ensures that changes are deployed in smaller, manageable
  increments, making the application more agile and responsive to user
  needs.

- Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD): CI/CD
  principles will be employed to automate the deployment process. This
  includes the integration of automated tests and deployment pipelines.
  CI/CD helps in maintaining consistency and reliability throughout the
  deployment process.

3\. Deployment Environment:

- Cloud Hosting: The project specifies the use of a cloud hosting
  environment to host the application. As such, we will configure and
  deploy the application in the selected cloud environment, ensuring
  scalability and reliability.

4\. Deployment Monitoring:

- Monitoring Environment: A monitoring environment will be created to
  continuously assess the operation of the hosted application. This
  environment will capture and record metrics and logs for the running
  application.

- Real-Time Monitoring: Real-time monitoring helps detect and address
  issues promptly, ensuring a seamless user experience and reducing the
  impact of potential problems.

**<u>Testing Strategy</u>**

A well-defined testing strategy is crucial to ensure the reliability and
functionality of the application. The testing strategy is designed to
align with project requirements while optimizing the use of resources:

1.  Unit Testing: Whenever possible, unit tests will be implemented
    during development to verify the correctness of individual code
    components. These tests serve as an initial quality assurance
    measure to detect and rectify errors early in the development
    process.

2.  User-Centric Manual Testing: The primary testing approach for the
    will involve manual testing by users. This real-world testing will
    evaluate the application's usability, functionality, and
    performance. Users will interact with the application to ensure that
    geographic points can be uploaded, descriptions can be added, and
    photos can be displayed accurately.

3.  Bug Tracking: A bug tracking system will be in place to record and
    manage identified issues, prioritizing them based on severity and
    impact.

**<u>Continuous Improvement</u>**

Continuous improvement is a fundamental aspect of the project, ensuring
that the application evolves and meets user needs:

1.  User Feedback: User feedback will be actively collected, analysed,
    and addressed to refine the application. Feedback on usability,
    functionality, and feature requests will be considered.

2.  Sprint Retrospectives: At the end of each sprint, a retrospective
    session will be held to review the progress, identify areas for
    improvement, and adjust strategies for subsequent sprints.

3.  Bug Resolution: Identified bugs and issues will be addressed
    promptly, with clear processes for resolution. This includes setting
    priorities and timelines for fixes.

4.  Feature Enhancements: As part of continuous improvement, the team
    will consider feature enhancements or additions based on user
    feedback and evolving requirements.

5.  Documentation Updates: Documentation, including user guides, will be
    updated to reflect any changes or improvements to the application.

**<u>Final Presentation Plan</u>**

The final presentation plan outlines the structure and key components of
the assessment presentation for the project:

1.  Presentation Format: The presentation will be in the form of
    screens-haring with a duration not exceeding 15 minutes. This
    concise format ensures that all team members have an opportunity to
    present their contributions within the allotted time.

2.  Content: The presentation will include the following components:

- Overall Description: An introduction to the project, its objectives,
  and the team's approach.

- Workflow Demonstration: A brief demonstration of the project's
  workflow, highlighting key processes and strategies.

- DevOps Choices: An overview of the DevOps choices made during the
  project, including deployment and testing strategies.

- Features Completed: An overview of the features successfully completed
  during the project, emphasizing their alignment with project
  requirements.

- Features Not Completed: An honest reflection on any features that were
  not fully implemented or any challenges encountered.

- Reflection and Future Work: Team members' reflections on the project,
  lessons learned, and ideas for future enhancements.

3.  Contributor Allocation: The presentation will ensure that each team
    member has an opportunity to contribute and share their insights,
    with an equal distribution of presentation time among team members.

**<u>Sprint 1: Laying the Foundations and Basics (9th October - 29th
October)</u>**

Issues:

1.  Set up GitHub repository:

- Create a GitHub repository to host the project's source code and
  documentation. Initialize the repository with a README.md file.

- Justification: This serves as a centralized platform for version
  control and collaboration, ensuring project management and code
  tracking.

2.  Establish the project structure:

- Define the project's directory structure, including folders for
  front-end, back-end, documentation, and testing.

- Justification: A well-organized project structure ensures team members
  can work effectively within a structured environment.

3.  Implement automated testing using GitHub Actions (CI/CD):

- Set up automated testing with GitHub Actions to ensure code quality
  and reliability.

- Justification: Automated build testing improves reliability.

4.  Create a monitoring environment for testing:

- Build a monitoring environment to test and ensure the operation of the
  hosted application, recording metrics and logs.

- Justification: Monitoring helps identify and address issues in
  real-time.

5.  Define REST API endpoints:

- Plan and document the REST API endpoints for uploading geographic
  points and retrieving information.

- Justification: Clear API design prevents misunderstandings and errors
  during development, promoting smooth collaboration.

6.  Configure HTTPS with correct certificates:

- Set up HTTPS security with valid SSL/TLS certificates to secure data
  in transit.

- Justification: Security is a fundamental requirement to protect user
  data and ensure trust.

7.  Integrate Swagger for API documentation:

- Integrate Swagger to generate API documentation, making it easier for
  developers to understand and use the APIs.

- Justification: Well-documented APIs improve collaboration and
  development efficiency.

8.  Choose a database and set up schema:

- Select the appropriate database technology (e.g., PostgreSQL) and
  design the database schema for storing geopoints and associated data.

- Justification: A robust and efficient database is essential for data
  storage and retrieval.

9.  Implement basic user authentication:

- Create a basic user authentication system to allow users to access the
  application.

- Justification: User authentication is critical for securing user
  accounts and data.

10. Begin internationalization (i18n):

- Lay the foundation for internationalization by setting up translation
  tools and preparing the codebase for localization.

- Justification: Internationalization ensures the application can be
  used by a global audience.

11. Research and select cloud hosting provider:

- Research and choose a cloud hosting provider (e.g., AWS) for deploying
  the application.

- Justification: Cloud hosting offers scalability, reliability, and
  infrastructure management.

12. Licence the project to Apache Licensing Standards:

- Apply an Apache License to the project to align with open-source
  standards.

- Justification: Licensing to Apache standards promotes open
  collaboration, legal compliance, and community trust in the project.

Role Assignments:

Tyler - Documentation/Planning

Owen -

Jakub -

Luke -

Steve - Server

**<u>Sprint 2: Completing Core Functionality (30th October - 19th
November)</u>**

Issues:

1.  Implement REST API for uploading geo-points:

- Develop the REST API endpoints for users to upload geographic points
  with descriptions.

- Justification: This is a core functionality of the application, and
  it's essential for users to submit their data.

2.  Develop mobile or desktop responsive web pages:

- Create responsive web pages to ensure the application is accessible
  and user-friendly on either mobile or desktop devices.

- Justification: Accessibility is key to reaching a wide user base.

3.  Enable geolocation functionality:

- Implement geolocation functionality on mobile devices to enable users
  to provide accurate geographic information.

- Justification: Geolocation is a key feature for the application.

4.  Set up Docker containers for the application:

- Containerize the application using Docker to enable consistent
  deployment and scaling.

- Justification: Containerization simplifies deployment and management.

5.  Integrate GDPR guidelines:

- Incorporate GDPR guidelines to ensure the application respects user
  data privacy and complies with data protection regulations.

- Justification: Data protection is crucial for user trust and
  compliance.

6.  Define roles and user sign-up functionality:

- Implement user roles and sign-up functionality to differentiate
  between standard users and administrators.

- Justification: Role-based access control is essential for user
  management.

7.  Complete i18n support:

- Finalize internationalization support to make the application usable
  by a global audience.

- Justification: Internationalization enhances the application's reach.

Role Assignments:

Tyler -

Owen -

Jakub -

Luke -

Steve -

**<u>Sprint 3: Finalizing Core Functionality (20th November - 8th
December)</u>**

Issues:

1.  Add user and administrator roles:

- Enhance user and administrator roles, adding or refining permissions
  as needed.

- Justification: Role-based access control is crucial for user
  management and security.

2.  Complete user documentation on the hosted site:

- Provide comprehensive user documentation on the hosted site to guide
  users on how to interact with the application.

- Justification: User documentation improves the user experience.

3.  Address any pending GDPR issues:

- Ensure GDPR compliance and address any outstanding issues to safeguard
  user data and privacy.

- Justification: GDPR compliance is essential for user trust and legal
  compliance.

4.  Plan for assessment presentation:

- Allocate times and areas of discussion for each member of the team.

- Justification: The assignment is mostly assessed on the end
  presentation. All members must contribute to the presentation for an
  equal amount of time.

Role Assignments:

Tyler -

Owen -

Jakub -

Luke -

Steve -

**<u>Dependencies</u>**

Identifying and managing dependencies is essential for a smooth project
execution. Dependencies can affect the project schedule and outcomes.
The following section outlines the key dependencies and how they align
with project requirements:

1.  Technical Research Dependency:

- Dependency Description: As the team embarks on the technical aspects
  of setting up the GitHub repository, configuring automated testing,
  and establishing user authentication, there may be a need for in-depth
  technical research.

- Mitigation Strategy: The team will ensure that the research is
  conducted in parallel with the initial task planning. If complex
  technical challenges arise, experienced team members will allocate
  additional time for research.

- Impact on Project: The impact could be a delay in the project schedule
  during Sprint 1.

2.  Feature and Functionality Review Dependency:

- Dependency Description: As the team aims to finalize core
  functionality and user documentation, there may be dependencies on
  feature and functionality reviews.

- Mitigation Strategy: The team will prioritize feature and
  functionality reviews to ensure that project goals align with
  requirements.

- Impact on Project: Delays in feature and functionality reviews could
  lead to adjustments in the final sprint schedule.

3.  Communication and Collaboration Dependency:

- Dependency Description: Effective communication and collaboration are
  vital for addressing pending GDPR issues and enhancing roles.

- Mitigation Strategy: The team will maintain regular communication
  through virtual Scrum meetings and collaborative tools like GitHub and
  Microsoft Teams to address these dependencies.

- Impact on Project: Inadequate communication could lead to
  misunderstandings and missed deadlines, impacting the project
  schedule.

4.  Technical Dependencies:

- Dependency Description: Technical aspects, such as integrating
  security measures and addressing unforeseen dependencies, could impact
  the project schedule.

- Mitigation Strategy: The team will maintain clear documentation and
  update the Kanban board and roadmap to identify and address technical
  dependencies as they arise.

- Impact on Project: Unforeseen technical dependencies might necessitate
  adjustments to the project schedule.

**<u>Quality Assurance</u>**

Quality Assurance is a crucial aspect of the project, ensuring that the
developed software meets the specified requirements, standards, and user
expectations. It encompasses various activities and processes to
guarantee the project's quality and success:

1.  Code Quality Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Ensure that the initial codebase is
  well-structured, follows coding standards, and has minimal errors.

- QA Process: Code reviews will be conducted by team members, with a
  focus on adherence to coding standards and best practices. Code
  analysis tools will be employed to identify and rectify issues
  promptly.

2.  Automated Testing Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Verify that the automated testing setup using
  GitHub Actions is functioning correctly and contributing to code
  quality.

- QA Process: QA engineers will verify that the automated testing setup
  effectively runs tests, reports issues, and confirms successful
  builds. Any discrepancies or failures will be addressed promptly.

3.  Functional Quality Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Ensure that core functionalities, including REST
  APIs and geolocation features, meet user requirements and function
  correctly.

- QA Process: Test scenarios will be developed to validate the
  functionality of REST APIs and geolocation features. QA engineers will
  conduct functional testing to ensure user expectations are met.

4.  Security and Compliance Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Verify that security measures, including GDPR
  compliance, are in place to protect user data and privacy.

- QA Process: Security assessments will be performed by qualified
  personnel to identify vulnerabilities and ensure compliance with data
  protection regulations. Any findings will be addressed promptly.

5.  User Documentation Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Ensure that comprehensive user documentation is
  accurate, accessible, and effectively guides users in interacting with
  the application.

- QA Process: User documentation will be reviewed for clarity, accuracy,
  and completeness. User acceptance testing will be conducted to verify
  the effectiveness of the documentation in guiding users.

6.  Role and Permissions Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Verify that user roles and permissions are
  correctly implemented to manage user access and security.

- QA Process: Role-based testing will be performed to confirm that user
  roles and permissions function as intended. QA engineers will ensure
  that user access and security are correctly enforced.

7.  Feedback and Issue Resolution Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Address user feedback and identified issues
  promptly to enhance the application and ensure a positive user
  experience.

- QA Process: An issue tracking system will be employed to record and
  prioritize identified issues and user feedback. Timely resolution will
  be ensured.

  **Overall Project Assurance:**

8.  Documentation Quality Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Confirm that all project documentation, including
  code documentation, user guides, and project documentation, adheres to
  defined standards.

- QA Process: A dedicated team member will oversee documentation
  quality. Documentation will be version-controlled, and a review
  process will be implemented for changes and updates.

9.  Continuous Testing and Continuous Integration Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Ensure that the continuous testing and continuous
  integration processes are seamlessly integrated into the development
  pipeline.

- QA Process: QA engineers will verify that the CI/CD pipeline is
  effectively building and testing code with every commit to the main
  branch. Any issues with the CI/CD process will be addressed promptly.

10. User-Centric Manual Testing Assurance:

- Quality Objective: Confirm that manual testing by users effectively
  evaluates the application's usability, functionality, and performance.

- QA Process: QA engineers will guide users through the manual testing
  process, providing clear instructions for assessing the application.
  Issues identified during manual testing will be recorded and
  addressed.

**<u>Resources Required</u>**

To successfully execute the project, several key resources are
necessary. These resources include technical tools, and infrastructure.
Proper allocation and management of these resources are essential to
meet project objectives:

**Human Interatction -**

1.  Development Team:

- Role: Development team members are responsible for designing,
  developing, and testing the application.

- Quantity: The team consists of five members, including front-end and
  back-end developers, documentation specialists and quality assurance.

2.  Stakeholder and Advisor:

- Role: The stakeholder provides guidance and feedback on the project,
  ensuring alignment with project goals. An advisor may provide subject
  matter expertise.

- Quantity: One stakeholder.

  **Technical Tools -**

1.  Development Tools:

- Description: Development tools and software, such as integrated
  development environments (IDEs), code editors, and version control
  systems (e.g., Git and GitHub), are required for coding and version
  control.

- Quantity: Each team member will use their preferred development tools.

2.  Quality Assurance Tools:

- Description: Testing tools, issue tracking systems, and manual testing
  environments are essential for quality assurance.

- Quantity: Various testing tools will be employed, such as JIRA for
  issue tracking, and manual testing environments.

3.  Documentation Platform:

- Description: A documentation platform, such as a Wiki, Markdown, or an
  indexing system, is required to centralize and manage project
  documentation.

- Quantity: One documentation platform for centralizing project
  documentation.

**Infrastructure and Hosting -**

1.  Cloud Hosting:

- Description: A cloud hosting provider, such as Microsoft Azure, is
  required to host the application. This infrastructure ensures
  scalability and reliability.

- Quantity: Selection of a reputable cloud hosting provider with a
  strong track record for uptime.

2.  Monitoring Environment:

- Description: A dedicated monitoring environment is needed to capture
  and record metrics and logs for the running application, allowing
  real-time monitoring and issue detection.

- Quantity: A separate environment set up for monitoring purposes.

**Meeting and Communication Tools -**

1.  Communication Tools:

- Description: Collaboration and communication tools, such as team chat
  platforms (e.g., Microsoft Teams), document sharing platforms (e.g.,
  Google Docs), and issue tracking systems (e.g., Github Projects), are
  necessary for real-time communication and information sharing among
  team members.

- Quantity: Access to these tools is essential for all team members to
  facilitate communication and collaboration.

**<u>Milestones and Deliverables</u>**

Milestones and deliverables are crucial aspects of project management
that help track progress, ensure accountability, and align the team with
project objectives. The following section outlines the key milestones
and deliverables for each sprint, ensuring that they are in line with
project requirements:

**Sprint 1: Laying the Foundations and Basics (9th October - 29th
October)**

Milestone 1: GitHub Repository and Project Structure Established -

- Deliverable 1: GitHub repository created and initialized with a
  README.md file.

- Deliverable 2: Project structure defined, including directories for
  front-end, back-end, documentation, and testing.

Milestone 2: Automated Testing and HTTPS Security -

- Deliverable 3: Automated testing set up using GitHub Actions (CI/CD)
  to ensure code quality.

- Deliverable 4: HTTPS security configuration with valid SSL/TLS
  certificates.

Milestone 3: Database and User Authentication Prepared -

- Deliverable 5: Database technology (e.g. PostgreSQL, SQLite etc)
  chosen, and the database schema designed.

- Deliverable 6: Basic user authentication system created.

Final Milestone: Internationalization Framework Initiated -

- Deliverable 7: Framework for internationalization (i18n) established,
  including translation tools and codebase preparation.

**Sprint 2: Completing Core Functionality (30th October - 19th
November)**

Milestone 1: REST API and User Interface Development -

- Deliverable 8: REST API endpoints for uploading geographic points and
  descriptions completed.

- Deliverable 9: Responsive web pages for mobile and desktop devices
  developed.

Milestone 2: Docker Containerization and GDPR Integration -

- Deliverable 10: Application containerized using Docker for consistent
  deployment and scaling.

- Deliverable 11: GDPR guidelines integrated into the application to
  ensure data privacy and compliance.

Final milestone: Role-Based Access Control and Internationalization -

- Deliverable 12: Role-based access control (user roles and sign-up
  functionality) implemented.

- Deliverable 13: Internationalization (i18n) support finalized for
  global accessibility.

**Sprint 3: Finalizing Core Functionality (20th November - 8th
December)**

Milestone 1: User Documentation and GDPR Compliance -

- Deliverable 14: Comprehensive user documentation for the hosted site
  provided.

- Deliverable 15: Any pending GDPR compliance issues addressed and
  resolved.

Milestone 2: User and Administrator Roles Enhanced -

- Deliverable 16: User and administrator roles enhanced with added or
  refined permissions.

- Deliverable 17: Assessment presentation plan established, including
  time allocation for each team member.

Final milestone: Presentation and Reflection -

- Deliverable 18: Assessment presentation recorded in a screenshare
  format, not exceeding 15 minutes.

- Deliverable 19: Presentation components include an introduction to the
  project, workflow demonstration, DevOps choices, features completed,
  features not completed, reflection, and future work. Each team member
  contributes equitably to the presentation.
