**<u>Project Contribution Guide</u>**

<u>Introduction</u>

Welcome to our project! We appreciate your interest in contributing.
This guide will walk you through the steps to make meaningful
contributions while adhering to our established workflow and DevOps
practices.

<u>Prerequisites</u>

Before you begin, ensure that you have the following:

1.  A GitHub account

2.  Git installed on your local machine

3.  Familiarity with basic Git commands

<u>Contribution Workflow</u>

1.  Fork the Repository -

Click on the "Fork" button at the top right corner of the GitHub
repository to create your own fork. This will create a copy of the
repository under your GitHub account.

2\. Clone the Repository -

Clone your forked repository to your local machine using the following
command:

git clone
[<u>https://github.com/jakubsepiolo2001/COM619-AE1</u>](https://github.com/your-username/repository.git)

3\. Create a Branch -

Create a new branch for your contribution. Use a branch name that
clearly describes the purpose of your changes:

git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name

4\. Make Changes -

Make your desired changes to the codebase. Ensure that your changes
align with the project's coding standards.

5\. Commit Changes -

Commit your changes with clear and concise commit messages:

git add .

git commit -m "Add your commit message here"

6\. Push Changes -

Push your changes to your forked repository:

git push origin feature/your-feature-name

7\. Create a Pull Request (PR) -

Go to the GitHub page of your forked repository. Click on the "New Pull
Request" button. Ensure you are comparing the correct branches and
provide a descriptive title and comment for your PR.

8\. Code Review -

Collaborators will review your PR. Make necessary changes based on
feedback.

9\. Merge -

Once approved, your changes will be merged into the main project.
Congratulations on your contribution!

<u>DevOps Practices</u>

Continuous Integration (CI) -

Our project uses GitHub Actions for CI. After creating a PR, automated
tests will run to ensure the stability of the codebase.

Branching Model -

We follow the Gitflow branching model. Feature branches are created for
each contribution, and development is done on feature branches before
merging into the main branch.

Documentation -

Always update the README and any relevant documentation when making
changes. Clear and concise documentation is crucial for project
understanding.

Licensing -

Ensure that your contributions comply with the project's licensing
(typically Apache License). Include licensing information in new files
if applicable.

<u>Conclusion</u>

Thank you for contributing to the project! If you have any questions or
need help, please reach out via GitHub issues and assign the “helped
wanted” or “question” label.
