**<u>Introduction</u>**

In this technology plan, we will outline the current technologies we are
using for our assessment project, provide justifications for their
selection, and explore three alternative technologies in each category.
This plan is designed to help the team make informed decisions about the
technologies we use, ensuring that we choose the most suitable tools for
the project's success. We will separate the technologies into relevant
categories and discuss their benefits and potential drawbacks.

**<u>Executive Summary</u>**

Our current technology stack includes:

- Backend Language and Framework: Jakarta Server Pages (JSP)

- Integrated Development Environment (IDE): NetBeans

- Cloud Server: Microsoft Azure

- Database Management: MySQL

- API Documentation: Swagger

- Containerization and Orchestration: Docker Compose

We've selected these technologies based on their compatibility, ease of
use, and cost-effectiveness for our educational project. However, we've
also evaluated alternative technologies in each category, considering
their advantages and disadvantages. Our primary goal is to make
well-informed technology choices that align with our project's
objectives.

We have considered alternatives such as Java Spring Framework, Ruby on
Rails, Flask (Python), IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, AWS,
Google Cloud Platform, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,
Microsoft SQL Server, Postman, ReDoc, and Stoplight Studio. Each
alternative comes with its own set of benefits and drawbacks, allowing
us to make informed decisions.

To enhance this technology plan, we recommend including use cases,
transition and migration plans, a budget analysis, and a risk
assessment. Additionally, we intend to regularly review our technology
stack to adapt to changing project needs and technology trends. This
comprehensive approach ensures that our technology choices remain in
alignment with our project's goals and objectives.

<u>Backend Language and Framework</u>

**Current Technology: Jakarta Server Pages (JSP)**

Justification: We have chosen Jakarta Server Pages (JSP) as the primary
technology for my project due to several compelling reasons. Firstly,
JSP is a mature and widely adopted technology for building dynamic web
pages and web applications in the Java ecosystem. This choice ensures
compatibility with Java-based technologies, simplifying integration with
other components of the system. JSP is known for its simplicity and ease
of use, making it more accessible to students programmers working on
academic projects. Its strong community support and extensive
documentation are valuable resources, ensuring that my team can find
solutions to potential issues promptly. Additionally, JSP's proven
scalability and reliability are particularly advantageous for a
cloud-based application like the one hosted on Microsoft Azure.

**Alternative Technology 1: Java Spring Framework**

Justification: An alternative to Jakarta Server Pages could be the Java
Spring Framework. Spring is a popular and robust framework that offers a
comprehensive set of features for building web applications. It boasts
extensive support for RESTful services, security, and data access,
providing a versatile solution for a wide range of applications. Spring
Boot, a part of the Spring ecosystem, simplifies the development
process, aids in deployment, and is known for its ease of use. It also
has a strong and active community that ensures ongoing support and a
wealth of resources.

Upsides:

- Springs extensive feature set and modularity enable developers to
  build complex web applications efficiently.

- The strong Spring community ensures support and access to a wealth of
  libraries and extensions.

- Spring Boot simplifies development and streamlines the deployment
  process.

Downsides:

- Spring, with its comprehensive feature set, may introduce unnecessary
  complexity for smaller-scale projects.

- The learning curve for Spring can be steeper compared to JSP, which is
  simpler and more beginner-friendly.

- Licensing costs could be a consideration, particularly for academic
  projects or budget-constrained scenarios.

  Quick Conclusion: Java Spring Framework offers extensive features and
  modularity for web application development, but its comprehensive
  nature may introduce unnecessary complexity for this relatively
  smaller-scale project. The learning curve for Spring could be steeper,
  and licensing costs may be a concern. Given the project's context and
  goals, the simplicity of Jakarta Server Pages (JSP) aligns better with
  the team's requirements.

  **Alternative Technology 2: Ruby on Rails**

Justification: Another alternative technology to consider is Ruby on
Rails, a popular and developer-friendly framework for web development.
Rails emphasizes convention over configuration, enabling rapid
development. It is particularly suitable for building web applications
with a strong focus on clean and maintainable code. Ruby on Rails
benefits from a vibrant developer community and has a strong emphasis on
developer productivity.

Upsides:

- Ruby on Rails prioritizes developer productivity and rapid
  development.

- Convention over configuration minimizes decision-making, making it an
  excellent choice for beginners.

- The framework's active community provides a wealth of gems (libraries)
  that can be leveraged in projects.

Downsides:

- Ruby on Rails is best suited for projects that align with its
  conventions, potentially limiting customization in certain cases.

- While Ruby is known for its developer-friendliness, it may not be as
  performant as Java for certain high-load applications.

- Rails may not be as well-suited for applications requiring strong Java
  integration.

  Quick Conclusion: Ruby on Rails promotes rapid development and clean
  code, but it is best suited for projects that adhere closely to its
  conventions. While it excels in developer-friendliness, it may not
  provide the level of performance needed for this specific project.
  Also, it may not align well with the Java-based technologies in use.

**Alternative Technology 3: Flask (Python)**

Justification: For a different approach, Flask, a web framework for
Python, provides a lightweight and customizable solution for web
development. Flask's minimalistic design provides developers with the
flexibility to select components and libraries according to their
project's requirements. It is known for its simplicity and is ideal for
smaller projects or applications where resource efficiency is essential.

Upsides:

- Flask provides a lightweight option, offering developers the freedom
  to structure their application as needed.

- Extensive Python libraries and third-party extensions are readily
  available for integration with Flask.

- Flask is an excellent choice for rapid prototyping and building small
  to medium-sized web applications.

Downsides:

- Flask's minimalistic design may require more effort in selecting and
  configuring components compared to more comprehensive frameworks like
  JSP.

- It may not be the best choice for applications requiring a high degree
  of structure and built-in features.

- Flask's ecosystem, while growing, may not be as extensive as more
  established frameworks.

Quick Conclusion: Flask's lightweight and customizable nature is
appealing, but it may require additional effort in terms of component
selection and configuration. It's well-suited for smaller projects but
might not offer the structured features required for this assessment.
Additionally, the ecosystem is less extensive compared to JSP, which may
limit available resources and support.

<u>Integrated Development Environment (IDE)</u>

**Current Technology: NetBeans**

Justification: NetBeans has been chosen as the integrated development
environment (IDE) for our project due to several factors. Firstly, it is
a free and open-source IDE, which aligns with the educational context of
the project and keeps costs low. NetBeans provides robust support for
Java development, making it well-suited for building web applications
using Jakarta Server Pages. The IDE offers valuable features such as
code templates, version control integration, and an intuitive user
interface, simplifying the development process. Furthermore, NetBeans
integrates seamlessly with Maven, a popular build tool for Java
projects, facilitating project management and dependency resolution.
Additionally, it supports frontend technologies such as HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript, allowing for comprehensive development within a single
environment.

**Alternative Technology 1: IntelliJ IDEA**

Justification: IntelliJ IDEA is a widely recognized commercial IDE that
could serve as an alternative to NetBeans. It is known for its excellent
support for Java development and its advanced coding features, which can
significantly enhance productivity. The IDE boasts strong integration
with build tools, including Maven and Gradle, simplifying the build and
deployment process. IntelliJ IDEA is also renowned for its refactoring
capabilities, helping developers maintain clean and maintainable code.

Upsides:

- IntelliJ IDEA offers a range of advanced features and tools, enhancing
  code quality and developer productivity.

- The IDE's strong support for various programming languages makes it a
  versatile choice.

- Extensive refactoring capabilities ensure the longevity and
  maintainability of code.

Downsides:

- One significant downside is the licensing cost associated with
  IntelliJ IDEA, which might be a consideration, particularly in
  educational or budget-constrained environments.

- While the commercial nature of IntelliJ IDEA provides dedicated
  support, free, open-source IDEs often have strong community support.

- Transitioning from NetBeans to IntelliJ IDEA may require adaptation,
  especially for users accustomed to specific features in NetBeans.

Quick Conclusion: IntelliJ IDEA is a powerful and advanced IDE, but the
licensing cost associated with it could be a concern in this educational
and budget-conscious context. Transitioning from NetBeans to IntelliJ
IDEA may require adaptation, especially for users accustomed to specific
features in NetBeans.

**Alternative Technology 2: Eclipse**

Justification: Eclipse is a popular open-source IDE with a strong focus
on Java development and a vast ecosystem of extensions. It is a viable
alternative to NetBeans due to its mature platform and extensive
community support. Eclipse offers features for Java development, such as
code assistance, debugging tools, and a wide array of plugins that
enhance its functionality.

Upsides:

- Eclipse is free and open-source, making it an attractive choice for
  educational and budget-conscious settings.

- The extensive library of plugins and extensions provides a rich set of
  tools for various development tasks.

- Eclipse has a long-standing presence in the developer community,
  ensuring ongoing support and updates.

Downsides:

- Eclipse's interface and user experience may differ significantly from
  NetBeans, requiring some adaptation for new users.

- Configuration and setup of Eclipse may be more complex, particularly
  for those unfamiliar with the platform.

- While Eclipse offers a wide range of features, some features may not
  be as streamlined as in more specialized IDEs.

Quick Conclusion: Eclipse is a strong open-source IDE with a focus on
Java development and a vast plugin ecosystem. While it's a suitable
alternative, it may require users to adapt to its interface and setup,
which differs from NetBeans. Some features in Eclipse may not be as
streamlined, and the transition process could be complex.

**Alternative Technology 3: Visual Studio Code (VS Code)**

Justification: Visual Studio Code (VS Code) is a highly popular, free,
and open-source code editor with extensive support for various
programming languages. While it is not a full-fledged IDE like NetBeans,
IntelliJ IDEA, or Eclipse, it provides a lightweight yet powerful
environment for Java development through extensions. VS Code's
simplicity and flexibility make it a compelling alternative, especially
for smaller projects or when the priority is on code editing and
collaboration.

Upsides:

- VS Code is free and lightweight, making it a quick and accessible
  choice for code-focused tasks.

- A wide range of extensions is available, allowing developers to
  customize the environment to their needs.

- Collaboration features and integration with version control systems
  are strong suits of VS Code.

Downsides:

- As a code editor, VS Code may not provide the comprehensive set of
  features offered by dedicated IDEs like NetBeans.

- Setting up a Java development environment in VS Code may require more
  configuration and the installation of multiple extensions.

- VS Code may not be as well-suited for complex enterprise-level
  projects.

  Quick Conclusion: Visual Studio Code is a lightweight code editor with
  excellent flexibility. However, it may not provide the comprehensive
  set of features offered by dedicated IDEs. Setting up a Java
  development environment in VS Code could be more complex, particularly
  with multiple extensions. Given the project's context, a dedicated IDE
  like NetBeans is preferred.

<u>Cloud Server</u>

**Current Technology: Microsoft Azure**

Justification: Microsoft Azure has been selected as the cloud platform
for hosting our project due to several strategic advantages. Azure is a
leading global cloud provider, known for its scalability and high
availability. The platform offers a wide range of services, including
virtual machines, databases, and container management through Azure
Kubernetes Service. Azure's comprehensive security and compliance
features, including GDPR compliance, are particularly appealing for
projects with stringent data protection requirements.

**Alternative Technology 1: Amazon Web Services (AWS)**

Justification: Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a strong alternative to
Microsoft Azure, offering a robust and mature cloud platform. AWS is
renowned for its extensive ecosystem of services, high uptime, and
reliability. It is particularly well-suited for cloud-native
applications, featuring serverless computing, machine learning tools,
and data analytics services. AWS also provides strong security features
and compliance certifications.

Upsides:

- AWS offers a vast and mature ecosystem of services, making it
  versatile for various application scenarios.

- The platform is backed by a substantial global network infrastructure,
  ensuring reliability and performance.

- AWS's strong security features and compliance certifications are
  beneficial for projects with regulatory requirements.

Downsides:

- Transitioning from Microsoft Azure to AWS or learning to use AWS
  services may require time and resources.

- Pricing structures and models in AWS can be complex, potentially
  leading to unexpected costs.

- The choice between Azure and AWS may depend on the existing IT
  landscape and specific project requirements.

  Quick Conclusion: AWS is a powerful cloud platform, but transitioning
  from Microsoft Azure to AWS might require significant time and
  resources. The complexity of AWS's pricing structures could lead to
  unexpected costs. Microsoft Azure aligns better with the project's
  current infrastructure and objectives.

**Alternative Technology 2: Google Cloud Platform (GCP)**

Justification: Google Cloud Platform (GCP) is another major cloud
provider, offering a wide array of services for hosting applications and
data. GCP is known for its strengths in data analytics, machine
learning, and big data solutions. It is particularly suitable for
organizations looking to leverage Google's expertise in these areas.

Upsides:

- GCP excels in data analytics, making it a strong choice for
  data-driven projects and machine learning applications.

- Google's global network infrastructure ensures high performance and
  availability.

- GCP's machine learning tools, such as TensorFlow, are widely used in
  AI and ML projects.

Downsides:

- GCP may not have as extensive a service offering as AWS or Azure in
  some areas, potentially requiring custom solutions.

- GCP may involve a learning curve and adaptation to Google's tools and
  services.

  Quick Conclusion: GCP excels in data analytics but may not offer as
  extensive a range of services, potentially requiring custom solutions.
  Learning to use GCP effectively may involve a learning curve. The
  existing infrastructure and data protection requirements make
  Microsoft Azure a more suitable choice.

**Alternative Technology 3: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)**

Justification: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is a cloud platform that
focuses on providing high-performance computing and database services.
OCI is well-suited for organizations that rely heavily on Oracle
database solutions and are looking to leverage the cloud for scaling and
expanding their operations.

Upsides:

- OCI offers high-performance computing and database solutions,
  particularly for Oracle Database workloads.

- Organizations heavily invested in Oracle technologies can benefit from
  seamless integration with their existing infrastructure.

- Oracle's commitment to cloud innovation ensures ongoing improvements
  and new services.

Downsides:

- OCI may not have as extensive a range of services as Azure, AWS, or
  GCP in certain areas.

- The pricing model for Oracle Cloud may differ from other providers,
  requiring careful consideration.

- Learning to use Oracle Cloud effectively may involve a learning curve,
  particularly if transitioning from another cloud platform.

  Quick Conclusion: OCI is a strong option for organizations heavily
  invested in Oracle technologies, but it may not have as extensive a
  range of services as Azure, AWS, or GCP in certain areas.
  Transitioning to OCI may involve a learning curve, and the pricing
  model differs, potentially affecting the project's budget. Given the
  project's context and existing cloud infrastructure, Microsoft Azure
  remains the chosen platform.

  <u>Database Management</u>

  **Current Technology: MySQL**

  Justification: MySQL has been chosen as the database management system
  for our project due to its reliability, performance, and widespread
  use in both small-scale and enterprise applications. MySQL is known
  for its ease of use and robust features, including support for
  transactions, complex queries, and data integrity. It is also an
  open-source solution, aligning with the educational context of the
  project and reducing licensing costs.

  **Alternative Technology 1: PostgreSQL**

  Justification: PostgreSQL is a powerful open-source relational
  database management system that can be a solid alternative to MySQL.
  It is known for its advanced features, such as support for complex
  data types, extensibility through custom functions, and strong data
  integrity. PostgreSQL excels in handling complex queries, making it an
  excellent choice for data-intensive applications.

  Upsides:

- PostgreSQL's support for advanced SQL features and complex data types
  provides flexibility for complex data modeling.

- The database system is known for its strong data integrity and
  reliability.

- Extensive community support and a rich ecosystem of extensions are
  available for PostgreSQL.

  Downsides:

- Transitioning from MySQL to PostgreSQL may require adaptation,
  particularly for those accustomed to MySQL's specific syntax and
  features.

- MySQL has a larger market share and wider adoption, which may be a
  consideration for finding resources and support.

- It's essential to consider the specific project requirements when
  choosing between PostgreSQL and MySQL.

  Quick Conclusion: PostgreSQL is a powerful open-source database
  management system, but transitioning previous knowledge from MySQL may
  require adaptation. MySQL's larger market share and wider adoption
  provide better access to resources and support, making it the
  preferred choice for this project.

  **Alternative Technology 2: MongoDB (NoSQL)**

  Justification: For projects with flexible schema requirements or large
  volumes of unstructured data, MongoDB is a compelling NoSQL database
  alternative. MongoDB is known for its scalability, high performance,
  and agility. It is particularly suitable for applications where data
  models may evolve rapidly, such as in agile development.

  Upsides:

- MongoDB's flexibility in data modeling suits applications with
  evolving or non-uniform data structures.

- The database is optimized for high write and read operations, making
  it ideal for certain data-intensive scenarios.

- MongoDB's JSON-like documents facilitate integration with modern web
  development technologies.

  Downsides:

- Projects that require complex joins and transactions may find
  relational databases like MySQL or PostgreSQL more suitable.

- MongoDB's flexible schema can lead to data integrity concerns, which
  need to be addressed at the application level.

- Transitioning to a NoSQL database like MongoDB may require changes in
  the data access layer of the application.

  Quick Conclusion: MongoDB offers flexibility for evolving data
  structures, but it may not be the best fit for projects requiring
  complex integration. Transitioning to a NoSQL database like MongoDB
  may require changes in the data access layer, which would introduce
  complexity. Given the project's requirements, the relational database
  system MySQL remains the optimal choice.

  **Alternative Technology 3: Microsoft SQL Server**

  Justification: Microsoft SQL Server is a commercial relational
  database management system that is well-suited for applications within
  the Microsoft technology stack. It offers a wide range of features,
  including advanced security, business intelligence, and data analysis
  tools. Microsoft SQL Server is particularly advantageous for
  organizations already invested in Microsoft technologies.

  Upsides:

- Integration with the Microsoft technology stack, including .NET and
  Azure, ensures a seamless development experience.

- Microsoft SQL Server offers comprehensive business intelligence and
  data analysis tools.

- Commercial support and a clear licensing structure may be preferable
  for certain projects.

  Downsides:

- Licensing costs associated with Microsoft SQL Server can be high,
  potentially affecting the project's budget.

- The system's compatibility is primarily with Microsoft technologies,
  which may not align with other technology choices in the project.

- Microsoft SQL Server's robust feature set may introduce complexity for
  smaller projects with modest requirements.

  Quick Conclusion: Microsoft SQL Server is a robust commercial database
  management system, but licensing costs may impact the project's
  budget. Its compatibility primarily with Microsoft technologies might
  not align with all technology choices made for this assessment. Given
  the project's educational context and open-source preference, MySQL is
  the preferred choice.

  <u>API Documentation</u>

  **Current Technology: Swagger**

  Justification: Swagger has been selected for API documentation in our
  project due to its widespread adoption and extensive features for
  designing, building, and documenting RESTful APIs. Swagger's
  user-friendly interface, interactive documentation, and code
  generation capabilities simplify API development and improve
  collaboration between development and testing teams. Furthermore,
  Swagger is well-supported by a broad community and various third-party
  integrations, making it a suitable choice for projects with diverse
  needs.

  **Alternative Technology 1: Postman**

  Justification: Postman is a popular alternative to Swagger, primarily
  known for its API testing capabilities. However, Postman has expanded
  its features to include API design, documentation, and collaboration.
  Its user-friendly interface and collaboration tools, such as team
  workspaces, can enhance the documentation process.

  Upsides:

- Postman offers a unified platform for API development, testing, and
  documentation.

- Its collaboration features make it an attractive choice for teams
  working on APIs.

- A free version is available, although premium plans with advanced
  features are also offered.

  Downsides:

- Postman's primary focus is on testing, so its documentation features
  may not be as extensive as those in Swagger.

- The documentation process in Postman might be less streamlined for
  teams compared to dedicated API documentation tools.

  Quick Conclusion: Postman is a unified platform with a focus on API
  testing but has expanded into API design and documentation. While its
  collaboration features are beneficial for teams, it might not be as
  extensive for documentation as Swagger. The documentation process in
  Postman could be less streamlined, and the project's objectives align
  better with Swagger for comprehensive API documentation.

  **Alternative Technology 2: ReDoc**

  Justification: ReDoc is an open-source alternative to Swagger that
  focuses on creating visually appealing API documentation. It generates
  interactive documentation from OpenAPI Specification (formerly known
  as Swagger) files, offering a modern and user-friendly experience for
  developers and consumers of APIs.

  Upsides:

- ReDoc excels in providing visually appealing, interactive API
  documentation.

- It automatically generates documentation from OpenAPI Specification
  files, simplifying the process.

- Being open-source, ReDoc is cost-effective and customizable.

  Downsides:

- ReDoc's feature set is limited to API documentation, lacking the
  broader API design and development capabilities offered by Swagger.

- It may require additional tools or software for other API-related
  tasks.

  Quick Conclusion: ReDoc excels in creating visually appealing API
  documentation but has a more limited feature set compared to Swagger.
  Its primary focus is on API documentation and may require additional
  tools or software for other API-related tasks. Since Swagger offers a
  broader range of features for API design, development, and
  documentation, it remains the preferred choice for this project.

  **Alternative Technology 3: Stoplight Studio**

  Justification: Stoplight Studio is a comprehensive API design and
  documentation platform. It supports designing, documenting, testing,
  and governing APIs in one place. Its visual editor allows for
  designing APIs using the OpenAPI Specification, and it includes
  features for collaborative editing and version control.

  Upsides:

- Stoplight Studio offers a full-featured API design and documentation
  solution in one platform.

- It provides collaborative editing and version control, making it
  suitable for teams.

- Extensive API design capabilities ensure consistency and quality from
  the start.

  Downsides:

- Stoplight Studio is a premium product, so there may be associated
  licensing costs.

- Smaller projects or projects with limited requirements might find its
  feature set excessive.

- Transitioning to Stoplight Studio from other API documentation tools
  may require adaptation.

  Quick Conclusion: Stoplight Studio offers a full-featured API design
  and documentation solution, including collaborative editing and
  version control. However, it is a premium product, and its feature set
  might be excessive for smaller projects with limited requirements.
  Transitioning to Stoplight Studio may involve adaptation and licensing
  costs. Given the project's context and objectives, Swagger's
  versatility and community support make it the chosen tool for API
  documentation.

  <u>Containerization and Orchestration</u>

  **Current Technology: Docker Compose**

  Justification:

  Docker Compose is chosen for containerization and orchestration due to
  its simplicity, portability, and compatibility with the project's
  cloud hosting on Microsoft Azure. Docker Compose enables the creation
  of multi-container applications with ease, defining application
  services in a single file. This ensures that the application runs
  consistently across different environments, from development to
  production. Docker's popularity and extensive repository of
  pre-configured containers in Docker Hub simplify the deployment
  process.

  **Alternative Technology 1: Kubernetes**

  Justification: Kubernetes is a powerful container orchestration
  system, an alternative to Docker Compose for more complex and scalable
  applications. Kubernetes excels in managing containerized applications
  at scale, providing automated deployment, scaling, and orchestration.
  It is particularly suitable for large and complex projects that demand
  high availability and scalability.

  Upsides:

- Kubernetes offers advanced automation and orchestration capabilities
  for containerized applications.

- It is designed for scaling and managing large, complex systems in a
  highly available and fault-tolerant manner.

- Kubernetes has a strong and active community, ensuring ongoing support
  and development.

  Downsides:

- Kubernetes introduces a steeper learning curve compared to Docker
  Compose, particularly for those new to container orchestration.

- Smaller projects may find Kubernetes' feature set excessive and
  complex, potentially leading to overhead.

  Quick Conclusion: Kubernetes is a powerful container orchestration
  system designed for complex and scalable applications. However, it
  introduces a steeper learning curve and may be overly complex for the
  project's smaller scale and relatively straightforward requirements.
  Docker Compose aligns better with the project's objectives for
  simplicity and compatibility with Microsoft Azure.

  **Alternative Technology 2: Apache Mesos**

  Justification: Apache Mesos is a distributed systems kernel that can
  manage various types of workloads, including containerized
  applications. It provides resource isolation, high availability, and
  scalability features. Mesos is a strong alternative for organizations
  looking to manage both containerized and non-containerized workloads
  within a unified cluster.

  Upsides:

- Apache Mesos offers a high degree of resource isolation and efficient
  resource allocation.

- It can manage various workloads, not limited to containers, providing
  versatility.

- Organizations that require mixed workloads can benefit from the
  unified cluster management.

  Downsides:

- Configuring and deploying Mesos clusters may require a significant
  learning curve.

- Smaller projects with straightforward requirements may find Mesos
  overly complex.

- Apache Mesos may have a smaller community and fewer pre-configured
  solutions compared to Docker and Kubernetes.

  Quick Conclusion: Apache Mesos is a distributed systems kernel
  suitable for managing various workloads, including containers. While
  it offers resource isolation and versatility, configuring and
  deploying Mesos clusters may require significant learning and
  adaptation efforts. The project's relatively small scale and
  straightforward requirements make Docker Compose a more practical
  choice.

  **Alternative Technology 3: Amazon ECS**

  Justification: Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) is a fully
  managed container orchestration service provided by Amazon Web
  Services (AWS). It offers a hassle-free option for deploying,
  managing, and scaling containerized applications using Docker
  containers on AWS infrastructure.

  Upsides:

- Amazon ECS simplifies container deployment and management,
  particularly for AWS users.

- It integrates seamlessly with other AWS services, providing a
  comprehensive cloud platform experience.

- Organizations already using AWS may find ECS a natural choice for
  containerization and orchestration.

  Downsides:

- Using Amazon ECS ties the project more closely to AWS, limiting
  portability to other cloud providers.

- Organizations with multi-cloud strategies may prefer more
  cloud-agnostic solutions.

- Like other cloud-managed services, AWS ECS comes with its pricing
  model and may result in increased costs as the project scales.

  Quick Conclusion: Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) is a managed
  container orchestration service provided by AWS. While it simplifies
  container deployment and management, it tightly couples the project
  with AWS, limiting portability to other cloud providers. The project's
  current hosting on Microsoft Azure and the desire to maintain a
  cloud-agnostic approach favour Docker Compose as the preferred
  containerization and orchestration solution.
